- [Narrator] To get the most out of this course
I recommend a few things to get you started.
It would be very good to have a hands on
with the fundaments of core Java APIs
as we call Java standard editions.
It would be very good to have a good hands-on
with the Java Database Connectivity API
which is used to transact against the database.
Then, any usage of IDE that is integrated
in a developing environment by Eclipse,
Netbeans, Intelligio, or any other would do.
A basic hands on of databases would be necessary
because we are going to build an application
which is going to converse with the database.
And lastly, we need to display pages on the browser,
which means there will be HTML and CSS code
in all those pages.
So an acquaintance of that is really going to be helpful.
There are a few terminologies that we may need
to use as a part of this course.
The first one is API,
which is application programming interface
so any class, any method that we refer
from the Java Standard Edition
or Java Enterprise Edition forms an API.
The next one is JAR, which is Java Archive,
which is basically a bundle of class files
that are external to your project.
You may need to include them
in the built part of your project.
Build path, on the other hand, or as we say class path,
is the location of all the user refined classes
that you have used in your web application
so that your compiler finds them
and appropriately uses them when it wants to run your app.
Now lets take a look at the software prerequisites
for this course.
We would need Java Development Kit,
JDK 1.6 version or higher.
There is a link has been shown on the website
through which you can download that EXC
and install it on your machine.
Then we would absolutely need an Eclipse IDE
which is the Integrated Development Environment,
the one-stop solution to do all our development activity.
We would be going for the Java Enterprise Eclipse IDE,
the Mars version.
However, you can choose any version
starting from Eclipse Kepler.
The linked download Eclipse has been given on this slide.
Up next, we would need Apache Tomcat 7.0 server.
Now this is very critical.
This is a server software that is downloadable
from the link mentioned on this slide.
You have two options.
You can either download this software as a ZIP
and extract it to an appropriate folder on the machine
or you may install the EXE
so that it gets installed as a service
under your operating system.
We are going to deploy the application on the server
and test out the application on the browser
for which we would need a browser software.
So you can pick up Google Chrome or Firefox
or Microsoft Edge, the latest version.
Lastly, our application is going to talk to the database
so we would need a database server.
We have chosen MySQL database server.
However, you're free to choose any other
which you are comfortable with.